=pod

=head1 Name

branch: [[about]]

=head1 Usage

  eg branch [-r]
  eg branch [-s] NEWBRANCH [STARTPOINT]
  eg branch -d BRANCH

=head1 Description

List the existing branches that you can switch to, create a new branch,
or delete an existing branch.  For switching the working copy to a
different branch, use the eg switch command instead.

Note that branches are local; creation of branches in a remote repository
can be accomplished by first creating a local branch and then pushing the
new branch to the remote repository using eg push.

=head1 Examples

List the available local branches

    $ eg branch

Create a new branch named random_stuff, based off the last commit.

    $ eg branch random_stuff

Create a new branch named sec-48 based off the 4.8 branch

    $ eg branch sec-48 4.8

Delete the branch named bling

    $ eg branch -d bling

Create a new branch named my_fixes in the default remote repository

    $ eg branch my_fixes
    $ eg push --branch my_fixes

(Advanced) Create a new branch named bling, based off the remote tracking branch of the same name

    $ eg branch bling origin/bling

See C<eg remote> for more details about setting up named remotes and
remote tracking branches, and C<eg help topic storage> for more details on
differences between branches and remote tracking branches.

=head1 Options

=head2  -d

Delete specified branch

=head2  -r

List remote tracking branches (see 'eg help topic storage') for more
details.  This is useful when using named remote repositories (see 'eg
help remote')

=head2  -s

After creating the new branch, switch to it

=head1 Differences from C<git branch>

C<eg branch> is identical to git branch other than adding a new -s option for
switching to a branch immediately after creating it.

=head1 See also

Run C<git help branch> for a comprehensive list of options available.
C<eg branch> is designed to accept the same options as git branch, and
with the same meanings unless specified otherwise in the above
L</"Differences"> section.

=head1 AUTHOR

Elijah Newren

=cut
